# Brazilian Python Workshop for Biological Data

Achieving one of the goals of the Brazilian Python Workshop for Biological Data (ref), new editions were held virtually in 2021 and 2022, trying to incorporate the suggestions and recommendations. In this context, the manuscript (ref) reports the advances of the latest editions and discusses new suggestions for the continuous improvement of a workshop focused on bioscientists with little or no programming experience.

## Workshop structure

Similar to the 2020 edition, both editions were structured online with the introduction of analysis, organization and data extraction using Python through practical sessions, employing a participatory live coding format [18]. We designed both workshops to take place around five days of immersive Python learning, with a one-day break for exercises (S1 Table and S2 Table). They encompassed introductory sessions covering language syntax concepts and practical classes involving Python coding and programming logic. Lectures were developed using interactive digital notebooks on the Google Collaboratory platform (https://colab.research.google.com/). During problem-solving and concept presentations, instructors actively wrote and narrated the code for the students. We encouraged the students to write, document, and run their own code independently and concurrently. The full description of the schedule for both editions can be found in the repository link: 
In 2021, the practical sessions involved the manipulation of tabulated data, exploratory analysis with graphs, exploration of epidemiological data [19], and biological diversity. In 2022, the practical sessions involved manipulation of tabulated data, exploratory analysis with graphs, introduction to the manipulation of biological sequences, and exploration of size measurements for three species of penguins observed in different islands of Antarctica [20]. In both years, the third day of the workshop was reserved for required activities. In 2021, individual and group activities were required, whereas in 2022, only group activities were mandatory. Individual activities have become optional to reduce the workload on participants. A daily seminar related to the applied use of the Python language was given. On the fifth day, a special session called Flash Talks was held with selected participants for short presentations on their research, followed by a discussion on how the Python language could be applied to their own studies.
All event communications - updates, and information throughout the event - were conducted using online platforms such as Slack (2021) and Discord (2022). For synchronous classes and presentations, we used Google Meet (https://meet.google.com/). An optional meeting preceding the workshop was scheduled with participants to clarify doubts related to the use of the platforms and as a way to minimize eventual technical complications. During the event, students were instructed to share errors and technical problems on the mentioned communication platforms (i.e. Slack or Discord) for immediate assistance from teaching assistants, for example, in solving syntax, semantics, and other general problems. As the days passed, students took it upon themselves to correct each other's mistakes and share feedback for solving exercises and technical issues among their peers.

